hi guys welcome to Steve's kitchen today
I'm going to be teaching you how to make
fantastic falafels and stick with me
because through this little series I'm
also going to be making the pita pockets
and I'm also gonna make a teeny sauce
from scratch so let's get on today and
make the best tasting falafels you've
ever tried oh and by the way you'll need
to subscribe to the channel if you
haven't already if you want to see the
other videos which should be coming up
over the next few days now for the best
flavor of falafel you want to take your
dried chickpeas and just put them into a
glass jar that's a cup of chickpeas so
we cut the chickpeas at least a couple
of inches above the peas themselves and
we're gonna leave them to soak overnight
or at least eight hours now you can use
canned chickpeas as well and then work
perfectly well just make sure you drain
all the moisture out of those chickpeas
before you start making the falafel okay
let's get these pythons started we've
got two cups of our chickpeas that we
rehydrate it overnight we pop those into
a bowl now the secret to really good for
apple is lots of flavor chickpeas are
not great on their own I mean they are
good but look this is a whole big bunch
of parsley and I'm just gonna chop that
up roughly and that's going in the bowl
as well it doesn't have to be done -
finally I'm just gonna chop the whole
order and pop it in it stalks and all
actually not right down to the tough
stalks pop that in with our chickpeas
and flavor flavor flavor I've got four
nice bunches here a nice great big lump
of coriander or cilantro I think our
Americans call it and again just roughly
chopping those up we're just gonna pop
those in this is really what makes the
flavor the smell coming off that so I
intro that coriander it's delicious and
I've got two brown onions here that I'm
just going to cut up roughly
then it doesn't have to fine and into
our bowl so now the onions the chickpeas
and all the herbs are in there we're
just going to mix that through with our
hands now guys my big food processors
not working at the moment so I'm going
to use this smaller one and I'm gonna do
mine in two batches but it doesn't
matter flavor flavor flavor this is
what's gonna make the difference all
these herbs and spices just look at the
colors of that now let blips that down
you can decide if you want it really
fine or whether you want it fairly
coarse I prefer a fairly fine falafels I
think it fries up better now guys look
at the colors of that that is what
falafel should look like it's coarse but
reasonably fine it's packed full of
flavor the texture is moist but
reasonably dry it'll hold together
nicely but we haven't finished yet I've
got one tablespoon of coriander seeds
whole seeds not ground down just pop
those in there I've got I get it right
this is one tablespoon of seeds that
I've ground down to a fine powder
coriander again I've got one tablespoon
of cumin I'll come in as people call it
pop that in there and one tablespoon of
ground cumin a teaspoon and a half of
regular salt and a really healthy
portion of ground pepper now I'm using
ground white pepper here but you can use
ground black pepper either will do now
why did I use white pepper you might ask
because I've run out of black and white
tastes really great anyway okay now take
a spoon and we start to mix those spices
in with the rest of our mixture here now
I'll just show you now this is almost
perfect but I think it's a little bit I
don't know if I can if you can see that
there but it's a little bit damp now the
way to combat that and that's because
the herbs had a lot of moisture in them
is just to add about a tablespoon to two
tablespoons of flour into this mixture
so I'll sprinkle some flour over there
that's one tablespoon I'll just fold
that through and see if that's a
now I think that's enough flour they're
holding it together nicely they're still
damp but let's test this one and cook it
off now I've got a pan a deep pan with
about three inches of oil here and I
want to bring the temperature of this
oil up to about 350 375 degrees
Fahrenheit that's 175 190 degrees
Celsius so I reckon that's around about
175 now I test it with a little bit of
bread see straight away that fizzled up
and that's going to cook nicely within
30 40 seconds that will be brown so
that's now ready for the falafels just
making Michel apples by hand I just roll
them into a little almond shape and then
just drop them into the oil okay once
he's bubbling away like that I'm just
going to use a slotted spoon to drop the
rest of them in probably book 4 or 5 in
at one time now if I just gently put a
slotted spoon in there I mean look at
those they're holding together
beautifully they've got a lovely crusty
outside I'm going to pop those on some
kitchen paper and let them drain and I'm
gonna cook some more okay I fried off my
falafel they're beautiful and crisp on
the outside let's just open that one up
and inside you've got all that flavor
and I can tell you that tastes delicious
that's the best falafel I've ever had
now we're going to take our falafel our
salad our tahini sauce we're mixing all
together making one fantastic meal okay
guys firstly I'm gonna make a quick
tahini sauce and I'm using the fresh
tahini that I made earlier you can buy
shop-bought tahini but fresh is best so
I've got 1/2 a cup of tahini sauce there
and I'm just going to cut up a lemon
fresh lemon and we want the sort Li we
want the juice in that lemon in the bowl
first so I've got on my lemon in there
and the keep all the the pith in there
as well
and put my half a cup of tahini then 1/2
a cup of water in there as well and now
just take a fork and mix that through
and then we just want to season it with
about half a teaspoon to a teaspoon of
salt and I'm just going to add 1/4 of a
cup of a thick Greek yogurt into the mix
as well and then mix that together
with a fork and we've got this lovely
thick dressing that we'll be using in
our palette all right to go with our
falafel our little pita pockets we're
gonna make a little fresh salsa now a
simple salsa is often best we've got red
onions fresh tomatoes and cucumber and
I'm going to cut these up and dice them
into little cubes so we've diced our
cucumber our red onion and our tomatoes
or tomatoes as our american friends say
and then we're just going to pop those
into a bowl together and then we're just
going to mix those through now I've left
all the skin on the cucumber as well
it adds beautiful color there so we're
set this aside in the fridge ready to
use when artful apples are ready to
construct okay guys we've got our pita
pockets now and we're just going to cut
a piece off the top and I've opened up
the pocket inside now this can get a
little bit messy we're going to take a
couple of artful apples and pop them
inside there drop them into the bottom
and then we're going to take a spoonful
of that shatter their little salads now
so that we made and pop that in there
and I want a big spoonful of the tahini
sauce dressing and then another couple
of falafel some more salad and again our
tahini sauce over the top of that now
you take a look that is a falafel that's
gonna taste absolutely delicious so
there is my take on a perfect falafel in
homemade pita pockets with your homemade
tahini now guys you can buy tahini from
the shop doesn't matter pitas
you can also buy but I'm gonna try this
one now but not while you're watching
it's gonna be messy so guys thank you
for watching subscribe to the channel
get over and watch the other videos
watch how we make the tahini watch how
we make the flatbreads these little pita
pockets be good I'll see you next week
take care I have one welcome to Steve's
kitchen today I'm going to show you how
to make pita
so we make pita pockets if you that's
not easy to say now if you're with me
the other day when we make the falafel
these are the Peter brake that I use now
you can buy your own integrase in the
supermarket but they'll never taste as
good as these ones so let's show you now
how to make one for
[Music]
you